Scaling Eureka


Around here, most people just call it, The Mountain. A truly massive hunk of rock and ice, she looms over our village with a constant presence that inspires both awe and fear among the people of our tribe. She is the most prominent and formidable feature on the horizon for miles around. While she is still an active volcano, descriptions of the last eruption are nothing more than legend passed down through many generations. Almost daily, thunderous noises can be heard from her highest reaches as glaciers break apart, and boulders are sent careening down her slopes. Fierce shaking and trembling can often be felt from the tumult and chaos still present in her core. Indeed, our people know of no greater force in this world, and as such, The Mountain garners great respect and reverence.


According to our elders, Mount Eureka, as she is more formally known, is best enjoyed from afar. They say there are mysterious and dangerous creatures who dwell upon her ridges. And worse than that, they warn, those who have dared an attempt at her peak were dispatched as effortlessly as a man discards a mosquito. Not one adventurer has returned to tell their tale. Despite this knowledge, I have long been obsessed with discovering Eureka for myself. In fact, I plan to embark on my journey to the summit in three days time. But first, there are preparations to be made, and people to consult. So it begins.

//Part 2

Light streamed in through the fog, causing the air to eerily glow, and the ice beneath our feet to shimmer. I felt blinded by her beauty. 

"How much time has passed since we left?" We had only just left, but Sophie already seemed exhausted from the initial hike. Her heaving broke the silence. We stopped for a moment so she could plant herself on a rock and rest.

"An hour."

"Can we go back now?" Watching the girl awkwardly yank off her backpack, I realized she was genuinely trying to take a break. Annoyed, I sat where I stood. 

"No." Impatiently, I motioned for her to speed up, but she ignored it. Her fingers stiffened so much from the cool winter air that even trying to uncap her water bottle appeared comical. "Why'd you come if you were just going to slow me down?"

"Gotta bring you back home safe, stupid."

"We're gonna die on this mountain at the rate you walk," I scoffed. "We haven't even moved more than 3 kilometers."

"Shut your whining face."

After a few minutes had passed, we began to march again. Sophie hummed some nonsensical song as she bounced forward.

//Part 3
I found Sophie in my younger years. Like an addict, I had ingested every shred of information about Eureka I had been able to find. Sophie was the keeper of information, the mistress of material, the siren of science. What was mere fascination for me was a way of life for her. I was addicted to Eureka, she was addicted to KNOWING. It did not matter what the focus was, she would track down the most obscure little detail, reveling in the gloriousness of whatever factoid she had found. She was like a child in her delight, and I became smitten.

I desired knowledge of how to ascend Eureka. She desired to find knowledge on anything. I dispatched her into the world, and she brought me back tidbits that I never knew existed.

With her help, I was able to construct a path. With her help, a plan emerged. She helped me find the tools I would need for the climb, and where the tools were no longer found, she helped me reason out how to make them. She had no love for Eureka per se; for her, the enjoyment was in the learning. 

I never should have let her come.


//Part 4
On the morning of our second day, I awoke to sounds of branches snapping not far from our campsite. I poked my head out through the door flap of my tent, and was immediately shocked to discover that the spot where Sophie had pitched her tent was no longer occupied. I called out to see if she was the source of the noise. 

“Sophie?” 

There was no response except for the sounds of a bird chirping and a distant rumble from high up on the mountain. Then the crackle of more branches, this time closer. I called out again, impatiently this time. 

“Sophie!” 

That triggered a flourish of commotion as two massive elk exploded from the trees behind my tent, charged through the campsite just feet from where I lay, and disappeared down an embankment, the ruckus of their escape growing distant as they fled. With that shot of adrenaline, I began packing up my things.

“Why’d you go and scare them away like that?” Sophie asked as she emerged through the same bushes that the elk had just come from. “I was trying to observe their feeding habits.”

With a heavy sigh, I responded, “Sophie, while I appreciate your inquisitive nature, we really need to stick together. As we continue up, conditions will become more and more dangerous, and I don’t want to be worrying about you running off all the time.”

I finished packing up, and we set off down the last section of actual trail on the expedition. The trail came to an end at the Great Eureka River, a raging torrent that we had to find a way to cross in order to continue our journey up The Mountain.

//Part 5

Another hour. We crossed the river safely by pure luck. There was a bridge further upstream that seemed like it was rotting away. As much as I tried not to question it, Sophie did.

"I wonder how long it's been since there were others on Eureka." Sophie wondered aloud.

"Stop." I said. As much as I refused to believe the rumors and the legends, the thought of others on Eureka left me oddly uncomfortable. We walked in silence after that.

The day dragged on. The long journey left us feeling ragged. The air felt thin, yet sharp. 

I could hear the miserable dragging of two small feet. Tiny bits of gravel and debris flung in every direction. Sweaty, tired, Sophie groaned in frustration. Long, wet strands of hair clung onto her cheeks. "I hate this. There's nothing but dirt and rocks and snow and more dirt!"

"It's not a walk to the garden." I said. "You can always turn tail if you want."

"No." Sophie said defiantly. She began to walk a normal pace. "I'm making sure you come home." I could tell that she was getting tired by the way she marched ahead of me. She swayed from side to side like a flower in the breeze. Her breath sounded more and more ragged as she continued upward. Her steps became unsteady. Stupid girl. I knew she was trying to hide her exhaustion.

"Let's take a break." I said.
